README.md, before:

# eidas-reference [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/alphagov/eidas-reference.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/alphagov/eidas-reference)

This repository contains a fork of the eIDAS reference implementation provided by CEF digital.
The original code can be obtained [here](https://ec.europa.eu/cefdigital/wiki/display/CEFDIGITAL/eIDAS-Node).

*NOTE: It's highly recommended that you use the official reference implementation and not this fork.*

## Licence

This code maintains its original copyright (2016 European Commission) and is licenced under the
[European Union Public Licence](https://ec.europa.eu/cefdigital/wiki/download/attachments/30771884/eupl1.1.-licence-en_0.pdf).

## Getting Started

There are [thorough instructions for getting set up on a range of application servers (pdf)](https://ec.europa.eu/cefdigital/wiki/download/attachments/30771884/eIDAS%20Node%20Installation%20Manual%20v1.1.pdf)
provided by CEF digital.

If you just want to get up and running quickly we recommend you use [tomcat](https://tomcat.apache.org/), for which we've provided some scripts to help get you started.

Regardless, you'll need to install [a version of the JDK](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html) (1.7 or higher, we recommend 1.8)
with the [Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction Policy Extension](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jce8-download-2133166.html) installed
(see [this blog post](http://suhothayan.blogspot.co.uk/2012/05/how-to-install-java-cryptography.html) for instructions).

### Running the tests

From the `EIDAS-Parent` folder run `mvn test`.

### Running the applications locally with Tomcat

*Note (windows): the scripts for windows use [Powershell](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/mt173057.aspx).
If you haven't used Powershell before you'll need to [set your execution policy](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh849812.aspx)
to allow it to run unsigned scripts (from powershell run `Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted`).
You also need to set CATALINA_HOME in Windows System Environment Variables - this should be your Tomcat root directory. 
The advisable tomcat downoad is the zipped one and not tomcat windows service.*

```
# Linux or OS X
./scripts/tomcat-deploy.sh

# Windows
.\scripts\tomcat-deploy.ps1
```

#### Where to find the applications

By default tomcat will run on port 8080, so if all has gone well the applications will be reachable at:

* Stub Service Provider - [http://localhost:8080/SP](http://localhost:8080/SP)
* Connector Node - [http://localhost:8080/ConnectorNode](http://localhost:8080/ConnectorNode)
* Proxy Node - [http://localhost:8080/ProxyNode](http://localhost:8080/ProxyNode)
* Stub Identity Provider - [http://localhost:8080/IdP](http://localhost:8080/IdP)


### Editing the code

You can import the code into your IDE of choice by pointing it at the pom.xml in EIDAS-Parent.

Commit message:

5221: Deploy to multiple tomcats when running locally
We had no end of trouble getting all four of the applications to run on
the same instance of tomcat with our environment-variable based config.
Because there's only one instance all the applications end up with the
same environment variables, which meant that we had to have different
config files for each application.

On our "production" system each application runs in its own process, so
we can distinguish them just using environment variables. By using
separate tomcats locally we can use the same approach.

This has allowed us to remove the (hacky) EIDAS-Config-Proxy-Node
folder, and the old tomcat-deploy.sh script (which was also hacky).

See the changes to the README for an overview of how to run the
applications now.

Also: fixed log4j.xml so that stub-sp writes its logs to STDOUT.

Authors: @richardtowers @sfkamath

README.md, after:

# eidas-reference [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/alphagov/eidas-reference.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/alphagov/eidas-reference)

This repository contains a fork of the eIDAS reference implementation provided by CEF digital.
The original code can be obtained [here](https://ec.europa.eu/cefdigital/wiki/display/CEFDIGITAL/eIDAS-Node).

*NOTE: It's highly recommended that you use the official reference implementation and not this fork.*

## Licence

This code maintains its original copyright (2016 European Commission) and is licenced under the
[European Union Public Licence](https://ec.europa.eu/cefdigital/wiki/download/attachments/30771884/eupl1.1.-licence-en_0.pdf).

## Getting Started

There are [thorough instructions for getting set up on a range of application servers (pdf)](https://ec.europa.eu/cefdigital/wiki/download/attachments/30771884/eIDAS%20Node%20Installation%20Manual%20v1.1.pdf)
provided by CEF digital.

If you just want to get up and running quickly we recommend you use [tomcat](https://tomcat.apache.org/), for which we've provided some scripts to help get you started.

Regardless, you'll need to install [a version of the JDK](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html) (1.7 or higher, we recommend 1.8)
with the [Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction Policy Extension](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jce8-download-2133166.html) installed
(see [this blog post](http://suhothayan.blogspot.co.uk/2012/05/how-to-install-java-cryptography.html) for instructions).

### Running the tests

From the `EIDAS-Parent` folder run `mvn test`.

### Running the applications locally with Tomcat

Setting up tomcat (you should only need to do this once):

```
# Download a tomcat .zip file from https://tomcat.apache.org/download-80.cgi

# This will create a folder with 4 tomcat instances (one for each of the stub-idp, connector-node, proxy-node and stub-sp) in ~/eidas-tomcat:
./scripts/create-tomcat.sh ~/Downloads/apache-tomcat-8.5.8.zip
```

Deploying and running the applications:

```
# This will build and deploy the applications to their tomcat folders:
./scripts/deploy-tomcat.sh

# This will start the tomcat instances:
./scripts/start-tomcat.sh

# And when you're done, stop the instances with:
./scripts/shutdown-tomcat.sh
```

#### Where to find the applications

Tomcat will run on ports 50400, 50401, 50402 and 50403, so if all is well the applications will be reachable at:

* Stub Service Provider - [http://localhost:50400](http://localhost:50400)
* Connector Node - [http://localhost:50401](http://localhost:50401)
* Proxy Node - [http://localhost:50402](http://localhost:50402)
* Stub Identity Provider - [http://localhost:50403](http://localhost:50403)


### Editing the code

You can import the code into your IDE of choice by pointing it at the pom.xml in EIDAS-Parent.
